so hello and welcome to the first of
what we hope will be many deep Dives on
core Technologies today we're going to
be talking about redis I'm Stefan I am
one of the co-founders of hello
interview I've conducted north of 2,000
interviews in my career and our hope
with these sessions is to give you some
of the depth necessary to be successful
in system design interviews system
design is certainly about solving
problems from end to end but the
interviewers in these sessions are going
to be asking you questions to try to
test your knowledge to make sure that
you don't just have a cursory
understanding of the concepts and the
technologies that are involved and so
what we're trying to do here is to give
you some of that Foundation or at least
give you a start to that Foundation if
you don't have it and reddis is a great
starting point so why are we learning
about reddis to begin with well redis is
an incredibly versatile technology you
can use it in a number of different
circumstances from caches distrib locks
leaderboards it can be used as a
replacement for Kafka in certain
instances and so there's a lot of bang
for your buck with learning about redus
and how it can apply to various system
design problems the second reason that
we really prefer redus in a lot of
circumstances is because it's very
simple to understand the conceptual
model of redus is actually quite simple
and that means that you can both explain
your choices but also understand their
implications if you need to dive into
the details of how a SQL query planner
is operating in postgress forget it
you've got to learn 30 years of history
in order to get there meanwhile if you
need to know why a rdus query is slow
it's actually pretty straightforward for
you to reason through and so redus and
particularly this session is hopefully a
really good return on your time so let's
talk about redis starting with what it
looks like from a enduser or developer
perspective then we'll talk about how it
actually oper Ates underneath the covers
and finally we'll merge the two to tell
you about how you can use it in various
system design scenarios and some of the
pitfalls that you might encounter uh in
those uh various problems so the first
thing that you should know about redus
is it is a single-threaded inmemory data
structure server all of those words
actually mean something single-threaded
is unusual to hear in distributed
systems mostly because it fails to
utilize multicore systems but it
actually simplifies things quite a lot
in many databases the order of
operations is hard to uh Gro and in
redus it's quite simple the first
request that comes in is the first one
that actually runs and everybody else
Waits this has some dramatic
implications for how you actually use
redus but it's a great simplifier for
how it's working under the covers the
second thing to know about redus is it
is in memory that means it is lightning
fast and and can operate in sub
millisecond times especially for simple
operations like sets and gets it also
has some implications for how you use it
in your system you can't necessarily
guarantee the durability of data uh but
it means you can use redus in places
that you might not others with a SQL
database you need to make sure that you
batch all of your requests together or
you run risks of that n plus1 problem
with reddis you can fire off a th000
requests and the server will happily
return its results to you it it really
changes how you think about operating
with a database the last piece is that
reddis is a data structure server what
does that mean well the core of redus is
this kind of key value dictionary but Rd
values don't necessarily need to be
strings or numbers or binary blobs they
can also be sorted sets or hashes or
geospatial indexes or Bloom filters the
way that reddis operates is trying to
mirror what you might think of from a
data structures and algorithms course
that you learn about a bunch of really
primitive data structures and reddis
just gives you a way to use them in a
distributed fashion which can be super
convenient because it means you can take
all of the knowledge that you've
accumulated in building up data
structures and algorithms expertise and
lift it into a system design context
which is quite nice now how does redus
actually operate it's really simple you
can Brew install redus on your laptop
and actually get a CLI that you can use
and the wire protocol is very basic it
accepts commands like what you see here
so I can call set and I set it I call
get and I get it I call incor and it
increments it
atomically each of these operates on a
key remember that the core of redus is
this dictionary of keys to these values
and the commands are basic basically
ways to manipulate the various data
structures if you look in the Rus
documentation they are organized by the
type of the data so it wouldn't make
sense for instance to call incor on a
hash but there's another command that
will allow you to increment the values
of a hash now these commands can get
pretty sophisticated so here's an
example of a way to add an item to a
stream that's not really important just
yet the important thing is that you have
a command type in this case the ad
operates on a stream that's what the X
prefix is and then there's the key
that's where it's operating now why do
the keys matter well the keys are really
how redus handles uh the multi- node
environments so you can just run redus
on a single node it runs in a single
thread and it can basically write the
commands that successfully execute out
to dis you can configure the interval
the default I think is every 1 second
which basically means redis can lose
some data but in the ideal scenario what
will happen if the process fails is
redus will go down and when it comes
back up it will read from that file and
recover somewhat gracefully in practice
this is horrible so for most people what
they're going to do is actually have a
replica and the way that this works is
you have some main or master and then
you have a secondary that's reading from
that append only file or basically from
the log this works much like change data
capture when a command runs successfully
here it gets it gets run on the
secondary there is some special behavior
in redus where if there's been 5 minutes
or an hour and I haven't gotten an
update then the secondary will basically
fully rebuild from the contents of uh
the master or main but in most instances
they're going to and ideally they're
going to be caught up to one another but
that's not very interesting that really
constrains us to the throughput of of
this single instance we can I guess
technically scale our readr put
indefinitely if we want to put a bunch
of replicas but how do we scale out
rights and this is where the keyspace
starts to come into the picture so redus
has an internal concept they call a slot
which is basically a hash of the key I
think it's usually a CRC modulo some
number 16 384 I think and that is the
slot that that key occupies
theoretically when the cluster isn't
resizing a single master or main will
own that slot and clients should be
aware of all of the nodes in the cluster
so if I have a request for Foo I'm going
to take the hash of Foo the key I'm
going to look up the slot that it
occupies and then decide which node in
the cluster I need to route my request
to each of the nodes in the clust ER
communicates via a gossip protocol so
they all know about the existence of
each other as well as which keys they
have which slots they have and if you
make a request to the wrong host it will
tell you that key doesn't exist here
it's been moved but for performance sake
it's way more beneficial if the client
knows exactly which host to go to and so
that's why when you start up a client in
redus you make it aware of all of the
hosts that are available you the ically
aren't making requests that bounce
across uh many different notes and so
this is where the keyspace becomes
incredibly important the only way to
Shard redus is through choosing your
keys and then when you are choosing how
to Shard you're functionally choosing
how to spread your data across the
keyspace so let's take a canonical
example for a moment if you have a cache
one of the major difficulties that you
usually have is what's called a hot key
problem where many of your requests are
going to the same key well how does this
break reddis if one of your keys is
located on this node and the aggregate
traffic to this node exceeds what this
node can handle then it doesn't matter
that these other hosts are out there the
uneven distribution of traffic is going
to kill you so what can you do well with
redis one of
the very common pattern is to Simply
append a random number to the key so
that way you write the key to multiple
hosts and you can read it from multiple
hosts so this provides a really crude
way to distribute the load across the
cluster but if you're thinking about how
you scale redus you should be thinking
about your key space this is really
essential to how you reason about how uh
redus
scales okay so let's walk through some
common instances of using red
in actual designs and talk about the
types of things that might come up in
your deep Dives and conversations with
your interviewer so the first use of
redus which is the most common is to use
it like a cache and the usage here is
pretty simple but let me just explain it
quickly you have a database where you
need to make heavy queries maybe they're
analytic queries maybe this is a deep
search index whatever and you want to be
able to scale this so what do you do
well we're going to create a redis
cachee off to the side and our service
is first going to check the cache it's
going to be very very fast see if
there's an entry in there for whatever
query we're going to make if there isn't
we're going to go to the database grab
it and then store the result in the
cache if there is we're just going to go
and take the result this is appropriate
in basically any case where you can
tolerate some staleness or inconsistency
this is great when you have an
eventually consistent system and in a
lot of cases that's appropriate there
are some places where this obviously
doesn't matter now you set up a cash
like this you've really got two concerns
that you need to address the first is
the hotkey issue which I just talked
about earlier and so we need to make
sure that our cash is spreading out the
load amongst all of the instances as
much as possible the way we do this in
rdus is by assigning keys and so we
might append values to our keys such
that we are evenly Distributing the
requests across all of our redus cache
the next thing that you need to be
consider concerned with is expiration
and a common question in interviews is
what's the expiration policy of your
cash there's a bunch of different
options here and reddis fundamentally
supports them all the most common way to
use reddis is to use the expire command
or to basically attach arguments to your
sets and gets and what that does is
after a certain time that item won't be
readable and so basically you can say
expire after you know 60 seconds if
that's your cash time to live and then
you can guarantee that anyone reading
out of your cash won't read that stale
data another way to configure R redus is
in its uh least recently used setup and
this works a little bit differently the
way that the least recently used setup
Works inside redis is basically you'll
continue to be able to append Keys into
your cache and functionally indefinitely
until you run out of memory and then at
that point redis will start to evict
those least recently used Keys uh from
your setup works very much like memcache
and in many cases there a drop in
replacement but a reasonable
Choice another use of reddis which is
quite simple and quite popular is to use
it as a rate limiter the way this works
is we want to guard this expensive
service from getting lots of requests
maybe our Downstream has decided that
they can only accept five requests every
60 seconds so what we need to do is make
sure that if we have multiple instances
of this service that they aren't all
making in aggregate more than five
requests over 60 seconds so how do we do
this well I talked about the atomic
increment command earlier on in the
session and what it does is it
increments a key if it exists if it
doesn't exists it'll set it to one and
it will return the final value think of
it like plus plus variable if you're
familiar with C++ or or other languages
that support that syntax the idea is if
this value is over the limit in my case
five then I don't want to make that
request I need to wait on the other hand
if it's under that that means that I've
got space and I can proceed with the
request and then the next thing I'm
going to do if I actually get an
opportunity to make that request is I'm
going to make sure that this key gets
expired so I'm going to say that I need
to expire this key
after 60 seconds and what this is going
to do in practice is it's going to allow
up to end requests to proceed through
and then after however many seconds in
this case I've set it to a minute has
finished then that key gets
automatically zeroed out and subsequent
Services can make a request again now
there is some mechanics that you'll have
to insert here the service basically
needs to make redundant calls um after
it gets rate limited because needs to
check in again when the rate limit has
expired and this also doesn't behave
particularly well when the rate limits
are under extreme stress so if I had
maybe 60 requests that I needed to make
it means that all of my services are
going to be hitting redit at the same
time and I don't have any specific
ordering that is going to be enforced so
I might starve one service so there's a
lot to talk about here in a system
design interview between how you Asser
ass ERT fairness of your services how
you set the limits what's most
appropriate and this is the most basic
implementation of a rate limiter there's
a lot of other structures that you could
potentially use that include windows and
give clients some idea about when they
might be next in line so on and so forth
so design your rate limiter as you see
fit but keep in mind there's a lot of
logistics that can go into this
depending upon the needs of your system
sometimes something simple is great so
far we've talked mostly about use cas
cases of redus that rely on its key
value nature maybe with some expiration
mechanics but the value of reddis and
its data structure server is primarily
that these data structures can become
increasingly powerful and I want to talk
about a few instances of that the most
powerful and honestly the most
complicated primitive that I think redus
offers is its stream and the idea behind
a stream is pretty simple there was
actually a Kafka paper that was written
I think by LinkedIn many years ago that
talks about the
of distributed append only logs in
system design so you can imagine Redd
streams as basically order lists of
items they're given an ID which is
usually a Tim stamp as they're inserted
and each of these items can have their
own keys and values think of them like
Json objects or
hashes and the nice thing about this
stream is if we've got something that we
need to make sure all of the items of
the stream are processed then rdus gives
us a bunch of of Primitives to work with
this so let's talk about if I needed to
build an async job queue so what I want
to be able to do is insert items onto
that queue and have them processed in
order and reliably I want to make sure
that if an item is uh inserted onto the
queue that it will eventually get
processed what I'm going to do for
storing these items is I'm going to
create a stream I'll put each of those
items on the stream as they're created
and then next I'm going to create this
thing called a consumer group you can
think of a consumer group like a pointer
into the stream and that pointer
basically defines where we're at and so
a consumer group will keep track of
where in the Stream it has to keep
processing the workers can each query
the consumer group for unallocated items
so if the consumer group happens to be
pointing at item two and no workers have
picked that one up then that item is
going to be allocated to that worker
there's a final notion within streams
and consumer groups around what redus
calls claiming and the idea is at any
given moment only one of these workers
can have claimed an item on the consumer
group and if for instance the worker
fails which it's apt to do then that
item can be reclaimed by the consumer
group and allocated out to an additional
worker so the the idea behind a reddish
stream is it gives you a way to
distribute work amongst many workers in
a way that's fault tolerant partially
because you you have all that normal
caveats about
redis and that is very um very fast and
so you don't have to have a bunch of
latency that you insert into the process
now what does this mean in the system
design setting well there are a bunch of
considerations that you should figure
out before you go and implement this the
first is is you need to be able to
handle failures of redus and there are
options like using a fork of redus like
memory DB that will give you more
reliability you also can build some
redundancy in by having replications or
additional shards basically by
additional Keys you'll also want to
figure out how you can keep these
workers allocated the right work the
typical way this is accomplished is that
the worker while it's processing an item
will continue to heartbeat back to the
consumer group letting it know hey I'm
still working on this and that way the
consumer group isn't snatching back the
work item uh before it's had a chance to
finish it but there are definitely
scenarios in distributed system where
this doesn't work as an example if
worker 2 loses network connectivity to
the consumer group but maybe still has
it to a database or a downstream system
it might continue to process that item
while the consumer group reclaims it and
hands it off to another worker so the
behavior here is that your consumer
group is going to offer at least once
guarantees but it's not going to
guarantee its process exactly once and
in some cases that may be exactly what
you need let's talk about two more data
structures that are really helpful in
system design
contexts for this application let's
pretend we want to keep a leaderboard of
the top five most liked tweets that
contain the word tiger
if you look at our tweet search answer
key you'll see a bit about where this
might come up so the sorted set commands
all start with z and their syntax is
quite simple I give a key the ranking
value in this case the number of likes
and then Su string identifier in this
case I'm going to have the Tweet ID
we'll call it Su ID 1 this first tweet
let's assume it's a tweet about Tiger
Woods in the next tweet we're going to
do the same thing but for some ID 2 this
might be a tweet about Zoo tigers and
we're going to add the ID 1 remember I
called these sorted sets which means for
any given ID it can only have one
ranking value so if for instance the
Tiger Woods tweet got an additional like
I would run the same command with 501 to
update it now I can run this command Z
range by rank to remove items that are
in a specific rank or range of ranks and
in this case what I'm doing is I'm
removing all but the top five so what I
effectively managed here is a heap I've
got the top five most like tweets and
every time I add a new tweet I can
remove the ones that are not in there
and I will only actually get an
incremental uh example in this list when
one of those new tweets Rises to a
number of likes that is greater than my
top five now it's important to remember
that these run in typical sorted list
times so as an example when I'm adding
things to the list I basically am eating
a log M where m is the number of items
in the list uh complexity and so being
able to run this command keeps my list
small and manageable I wouldn't want to
maintain an indefinitely growing list of
the tweets that contain the word tiger
because then every incremental addition
needs to be inserted into that sorted
list and while it's logarithmic it still
is growing as the number of examples
grows now this sounds like a pretty good
idea but remember I'm doing this in a
single key so in in so far as I need to
manage uh the top like tweets by
specific keywords I can probably
distribute this across a cluster by
having unique
keys but if I was using this to keep
track of all of the tweets and try to
find the most like tweets across my
entire uh setup then I might have a
problem because they're all going to sit
on a single node if I want them to sit
on multiple nodes I'm going to need to
keep multiple sorted sets and then
combine them at the last minute so what
I would basically do is take some hash
of the Tweet ID and then I would keep a
sorted set
of the items that have that hash and
then when I wanted to query this I would
query all of those sorted sets across my
cluster I would need to issue however
many queries for the number of shards
maybe 16 queries uh in practice this is
usually not a big deal especially
because redus happens to be so fast but
it certainly does have limitations on on
scaling and and how you build your
systems once we have the sorted set
primitive there's a lot of things that
we can build on top and reddis goes out
of their way to implement what I think
is one of the most useful uh geospatial
index the use cases for this vary but
essentially if you have a big list of
items that have locations and you
wouldn't be able to search them by
location this is a great way to do it
and so the API looks pretty basic when I
want to add an item to my geospatial
index I'm going to pass in a longitude
and in latitude and an identifier for my
item and that's going to add it to the
index at this key when I want to search
that index I run the Geo Search Command
give it the key I'm going to give it a
an anchor point and then a radius and I
can optionally return the distances that
are associated with it and this works
exactly like you'd expect if I have a
bike rental service and I want to find
all the nearby stations I add the
stations to my GS spatial index and
query the way that this works under the
covers is that each of these longitudes
and latitudes are geohash to give them
basically a numeric identifier that
numeric identifier is the ranking in the
sorted set and then reddis under the
covers is calculating the bounding boxes
given your radius and then finding all
of those entries that are basically
within that range in your sorted set Rus
does also in this case ensure that
you're not returning items outside that
radius so you theoretically wouldn't see
an entry with a radius of six but the
important thing here probably isn't the
internals the important thing is that
this API is super convenient and works
in a wide variety of different
situations now from a system design
perspective this isn't without its
perils there's a number of cases where
you might not want to do this the first
is if your items aren't changing
location very very often if you're not
updating your data it may actually be
better to just keep a static list of
longitudes and latitudes in the service
that's actually making these queries and
then just calculate the have sign
distance for all of them if for instance
I have a th000 stores across the globe
that's actually not that much to do some
simple uh floating Point arithmetic to
go and find the closest place it's
certainly faster than making a network
call out to Rus the other instance where
this can have some trouble is that
remember that the index is on a single
key which means it's on a single node if
I need to go and separate this out and I
need to go and Shard this then I've got
to decide on some way to do that there's
a lot of natural ways to do this I can
calculate the geohash on my side I can
take some of the most significant bits
and use those as part of the key I can
break this out by continent where
frequently I'm not going to need a query
across continents or or if I'm near the
border maybe I'll query to maybe uh
North America and South America but
generally speaking I need to be
concerned with how this scales if I've
got say billions of examples the last
capability of Redd that I'm going to
talk about today is pubsub and pubsub is
really trying to solve for this unique
instance where your servers need to be
able to address one another in a
reasonable fashion canonical example of
this would be a chat room where uh us
user one is connected to server a maybe
via a websocket or some persistent TLS
connection and they need to message user
3 who unfortunately is connected to
server C how does server a know user 3
is on server C there's a bunch of
different potential solutions to this
problem probably the most famous is to
use a consistent hash ring so that way
user 3 is always allocated to server C
and server a knows that and so can send
messages directly there but there's a
bunch of incremental problems that
happen with these consistent hash Rings
notably it's harder to to manage the
balance between servers and scaling them
up and down requires a bunch of very
careful orchestration usually with a
service something like zookeeper but
redus has this uh capability called
pubsub and the idea with pubsub is that
the servers can connect to redus and
announce a a publication uh that they're
going to be making and then on that
topic other servers can subscribe so if
for instance user one connects to server
a server a is going to tell reddis that
I have user one any messages sent to the
topic for user one should come back to
me and server C would do the same thing
now when server a wants to send a
message to server C so that user 3 gets
it what it's it's going to do is publish
to the topic of user 3 redis pubsub is
at most once delivery so the idea here
is that the message might get to a user
and it might not which is surprisingly
useful in spite of its reliability
issues what it typically means from a
system design perspective is if you need
to guarantee that messages eventually
arrive you're going to have to try
something else
but Reda pubsub is going to be very very
fast it's operating on a single box and
all it's doing is bouncing these
requests between different services and
so it can scale quite well and what this
allows us to do is if we wanted to we
could swap user one and user 3 they
could connect to different hosts and
redis pubsub would be the registry that
knew which host each user was connected
to this is something that's a little bit
harder to pull off with for instance a
consistent hash ring and it also means
if server a were to go down we can
migrate user 3 to server B quite quickly
because server B will now register its
publication to that topic and for a
while those messages will go both to
server a and server B but they'll
eventually get their way to user 3 like
I said there's a bunch of considerations
with this I think the WhatsApp key that
we have on the site talks about some of
them in depth but be happy to answer
questions in the comments uh if you've
got them overall thank you so much for
listening in on this deep dive on redus
redus is useful across the board in a
number of different instances from
geospatial indexes leaderboards
distributed locks and so it probably has
a place in your system designs and I
hope this presentation this video has
really shown you that the internals of
redus aren't that complicated and if you
understand them then you can reason
through some of the issues that you
might expect in
production so that's a wrap on our
reddest Deep dive would love to get any
feedback that you all have in the
comments any questions or followups if
you'd like to read more our redest Deep
dive write up is available in the
description below and we're looking
forward to making more of these for you
all if you find them interesting so let
us know what you'd like to see next
thanks I'm Stefan have a great day